SDR Prototype Screen
====================

Here is a brief overview of the different controls that you will see, and how they are used.

Menu - this will provide a drop down menu where configuration panels can be accessed as well as not so commonly used SDR controls will be located.

The menu currently has four options:

The Frequency Keypad is what the names suggests, a calculator type entry of frequency, making quick changes of frequency relatively easy. The frequency can be entered in two ways, the complete frequency, or if the text starts with a dot, then only the kilohertz needs to be entered and the current VFO megahertz is used.

The Preferences allows for the setting of the maximum and minimum frequencies for the SDR which must be within the limits set for the hardware which is held in the SDR file. The Shift value in kHz is also set here. You can also set the different step sizes for tuning and also the different filters and AGC values for each mode.

The CW keyboard brings up a new windows where a number of pre-set messages may be chosen from. The keyboard doesn't allow for real-time typing of messages, but having a number of pre-set messages will probably be enough, at least initially. It is possible to embed repeated text like callsigns in a message by using one of the text boxes at the top, labelled: "My callsign (%M)", "Remote callsign (%R)", "Locator (%Q)", "Report (%S)" and "Serial (%N)". These are subsituted in the message whenever the %M, %R, %Q, %S or %N characters are found in the text. The speed that the message is sent at may also be set.

The messages may consist of the letters A to Z, the numbers 0 - 9, and the punctuation "/?,". In addition the character "=" is translated as "-...-", "." as ".-.-.", and "*" as "...-.-".

The four buttons are labelled "Send", "Abort, "Close" and "help". Send starts the transmitter and begins sending the chosen message. Abort stops an already started transmission, Close closes the window and Help will eventually bring up a help screen for the CW keyboard. The main Transmit button on the GUI may also be used to abort a CW transmission.

The Record option switches audio capture on and off. The status of this is shown by a mark at the side of the menu entry. The name of the audio file is made up of the date and time that the file was opened.

The Help entry takes you to the UWSDR help book. This is also available from the SDRHelp program.

The Hardware Info displays information about the SDR that is currently being used. This information is taken from the SDR description file and describes the parameters of the hardware.

There is an information box under Hardware Info which gives a listing of the fixed SDR parameters that are held in the .SDR file.

The About box is simply acknowledgements for work done on the project. Exit is self explanatory. You cannot exit when transmitting.

I am sure further preferences will appear here in due course.


VFO A/B - Selects VFO A or B to be the primary VFO. This information will be refelected on the intormation area to the right of the frequency display.

VFO C/D - Selects VFO C or D to be the primary VFO. This information will be refelected on the intormation area to the right of the frequency display.

Swap - Swaps the values in VFO A and VFO B or VFO C and VFO D, depesning on which VFO is the current VFO.

SPLIT - This will make the SDR receive on the frequency set by the main VFO selected by the user and transmit on the other VFO. The VFO in use as well as the SPLIT status is always displayed in the information panel. The splits available are TX A RX B, RX B TX A, TX C RX D and TX D RX C.

SHIFT - - Subtracts a shift to the current VFO on transmit for accessing repeaters. This shift is set in the preferences panels. The SPLIT status is shown in the information panel.

SHIFT + - Adds a shift to the current VFO on transmit for accessing repeaters. This shift is set in the preferences panels. The SPLIT status is shown in the information panel.

Tuning Knob - This is rotated by moving the mouse over it, and pressing either the left or right mouse buttons. This is an auto-repeat system so keeping the button pressed will tune the SDR continuously. The speed of tuning is set by the Speed setting, see later. This can further be controlled by the position where the mouse is when the button is pressed. The white lines indicate the different zones, nearer the centre is slower, and further out is faster. It can also be tuned by using the mouse wheel at a rate faster than the slowest setting, but slower than the medium setting.

MHz - - Subtracts one Megahertz from the current VFO frequency.

MHz + - Adds one Megahertz from the current VFO frequency.

The frequency display attempts to replicate that authentic black box experience.

The spectrum display shows a range of frequencies round the current operating frequency. The actual width seen will depend on the tuning steps of the hardware and the sample rate. It may also be used to view the signal after the filter. The display may be one of two different spectrum displays or a waterfall, the rate that it is refreshed can be changed also. This is done because the spectrum display is rather heavy on resources and may be a problem on older computers. All of these options are available by right clicking the mouse when over the spectrum display.

The first spectrum display type looks like the output of a spectrum analyser, with a single line joining the amplitudes of the different FFT bins. The second display shows the same information but with a solid area underneath.

It is possible to tune the SDR via the mouse and spectrum display by pointing and clicking with the left hand mouse button.

Mode - Sets the SDR (actually the DSP code, the SDR knows nothing about the mode), to one of  CW Narrow, CW Wide, USB, LSB, FM Narrow, FM Wide and even AM. The setting of the mode can also affect the speed of tuning and the filter bandwidth, see the entries for Speed and Filter below.

RIT - Switches the RIT on and off. The status of the RIT is seen in the informaion box.

Mute - Turns the SDR receiver off when not in use, transmit is still available.

Filter - This sets the IF bandwidth of the SDR (really the DSP). It can be one of many values between 20 kHz and 25 Hz. When in the Auto mode the bandwidth will be dependent on the mode in use. In Auto mode the value used is that which is set in the preferences section.

RIT Knob - This is the knob that controls the actual RIT value. It can move between -5 kHz and +5 kHz. This knob is controled in exactly the same way as the tuning knob, see above. This control has end stops however.

TRANSMIT - This is the push-to-talk switch for the SDR. Pressing it will potentially cause the frequency display to change, as well as a nice red TRANSMIT appearing in the information box.

S Meter - This is a pretty good replication of a real S Meter. It'll probably be calibrated correctly too! This may be used to sample the levels at different locations within the transmitter and receiver, these are selected by clicking the right hand mouse button within the S meter window.

Mic Gain, Power, AF Gain and Squelch Knobs - These knobs operate in the same manner as the RIT knob described above.

The window can be closed by clicking the close button in the top right of the window, or selecting Exit from the menu.
